
## API (APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE )

APIs, or Application Programming Interfaces, are like a set of rules and protocols that allow different software programs to talk to each other and share data or functionality. For example, when you use a weather app on your phone, it's probably using an API to get the current weather data from a service.

APIs are a set of rules and protocols that help different softwares or even different pieces of software to communicate with each other. This might naturally lead you to wonder why APIs are even important or required.

APIs provide a way for an app to interact with each other. For example, one app could request data from another app and get data in return. The API (Application Program Interface) component can also allow one app's functionality, and the second app can use it. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) defines an API as "a set of subroutine definitions, protocols, and services for building software apps.

The modern API has taken on some unique characteristics that have truly transformed the technology space. First, modern APIs adhere to specific standards (typically HTTP and REST), which enable APIs to be developer-friendly, self-described, easily accessible, and understood broadly.

How do APIs work?

API architecture is usually explained in terms of client and server. The application sending the request is called the client, and the application sending the response is called the server. So in the weather example, the bureau’s weather database is the server, and the mobile app is the client.

There are four different  APIs

SOAP APIs 

These APIs use Simple Object Access Protocol. Client and server exchange messages using XML. This is a less flexible API that was more popular in the past.

RPC APIs

These APIs are called Remote Procedure Calls. The client completes a function (or procedure) on the server, and the server sends the output back to the client.

Websocket APIs

Websocket API is another modern web API development that uses JSON objects to pass data. A WebSocket API supports two-way communication between client apps and the server. The server can send callback messages to connected clients, making it more efficient than REST API.

REST APIs
These are the most popular and flexible APIs found on the web today. The client sends requests to the server as data. The server uses this client input to start internal functions and returns output data back to the client.

What are REST APIs?
REST stands for Representational State Transfer. REST defines a set of functions like GET, PUT, DELETE, etc. that clients can use to access server data. Clients and servers exchange data using HTTP.

The main feature of REST API is statelessness. Statelessness means that servers do not save client data between requests. Client requests to the server are similar to URLs you type in your browser to visit a website. The response from the server is plain data, without the typical graphical rendering of a web page.

How to write API documentation?

Writing comprehensive API documentation is part of the API management process. API documentation can be auto-generated using tools or written manually. Some best practices include:

Writing explanations in simple, easy-to-read English. Documents generated by tools can become wordy and require editing.
Using code samples to explain functionality.
Maintaining the documentation so it is accurate and up-to-date.
Aiming the writing style at beginners
Covering all the problems the API can solve for the users.
